Welcome back.
And this video I'm going to introduce a few new command line commands that help us create folders and
files using the command line rather than having to go over here and do file new file or right click
somewhere and do new folder or a new file rather than having to do that we'll be able to do it all through
the command line before we get started on that.
Though I want to show you a few ways you can customize your environment and your editor on cloud nine
.
So if we go over here to the little Settings button it opens up preferences and there's a few different
things I'll point out.
The first one that most people tend to care about is the theme and the syntax highlighting colors.
When I first started teaching and I showed my students how they could change their color scheme on the
terminal and also in a blind text students went crazy and spent hours and hours creating custom themes
and sharing them online and comparing them trying to find the one that works just right for them.
So if you do want to explore some of this and find one that you prefer.
There are two different things you can customize in cloud nine.
The first one is the theme of the actual application.
So the color of the folder structure and the background colors.
And the second one is the syntax highlighting the colors instead of this file.
There are three choices for the theme and I like this one here.
The flat theme I'll be using this one because it's higher contrast and easier to read over screencast
.
So this is the syntax highlighting here and we can change it using this little dropdown and we can make
it into polarized dark which is a pretty common one.
You can see it changes so totally up to you what you work with I'll use cloud nine day and the flat
theme and then the next thing I want to do is increase this font size down here.
So what you can do is go to settings and then scroll down to editors and terminal.
You can change everything from the text color the background color.
All of that I'm going to change the font size here and I think that should work around 18.
And there are quite a few other settings that you can work with here so feel free to play around with
those.
Find what works best for you.
You can change everything from the font size to the number of spaces in your tabs to some of the autocomplete
options as well.
So I'll close out of that.
Let's talk about the command line command that I want to introduce the first one is a command called
touch and touch will let us make a new file.
Currently I'm inside of the workspace directory.
Let's CD down to the colors directory and there's two ways I could do that.
I could do cd enter the command line and hit enter and then I could do cd colors and now I'm in the
colors directory or I'll go back.
I can also do and one line by typing CD insert to command line slash colors and that will CD into both
of them and now I'm in the colors directory.
So as I mentioned the touch command will help us make a new file.
So we type touch and then the name of the file.
So I'll make one called Orange dot txt and we can use it to make any type of file H.T. Melchior says
Javascript.
And those are the three main ones that we'll be using it for but DXi is fine markdown even add a word
document if you want it to or spreadsheet you can create any type of file from the command line.
So that's on you to do.
Touch orange cut to 60.
And if I hit Enter two things happen.
One over here you can see that orange that 260 has been added under the colors directory.
And if I type LS I now see orange dot 60.
Let's make one more file.
Touch yellow that TXI.
And that's also added over here.
And if I type LS again I see I have now red orange and yellow textfiles So that's touch it will create
a new file and if you want to create a whole directory I can use a new command called M-K D.
Or make directory so people will call it make dear make directory just M-K dear.
You'll hear all sorts of different things.
I usually call it make directory and it makes a directory.
So just like touch we need to give it an argument.
So I'm inside of the colors directory and I want to make a new folder called fav colors.
I could go over here and right click and find the new folder and then I'd have to type in the folder
name and hit enter or I can do make directory m Qadeer fav colors just like that.
And you can see five colors has been added and now will go into 5 colors CD fav colors and I'll make
some of my favorite color files so purple dot DX T and will do green tea XTi as well and blue that T
T.
And in case you're wondering purple is actually my favorite color green and blue are just they're completely
as fillers so disregard that.
All right so if we type LS You see now we have three files inside of fav colors.
And if I see the dot dot I'm now inside of the colors directory and we have fav colors orange Suttie
XTi red dot to 60 and yellow that t s t.
OK.
So to review we have touch to make a new file and make directory and Qadeer to make a directory.
So now if I say let's make a new directory called X or a new file called Aptor.
J.S. you'll see me most of the time doing touch app dot J Yes or if I need to make a directory called
models it will be make directory models at the beginning.
I will make a point of showing both ways so that if you're still getting used to the command line you
see how you can do it over here by right clicking or by using the File menu.
But it is the developer way and the faster way of getting things done to just use a command line